What is overflow?
Everything in CSS is a box. You can constrain the size of these boxes by assigning values of width and height (or inline-size and
block-size). Overflow happens when there is too much content to fit in a box. CSS provides various tools to manage overflow. As you go
further with CSS layout and writing CSS, you will encounter more overflow situations.

*The overflow property
The  overflow property is how you take control of an element's overflow. It is the way you instruct the browser how it should behave.
 The default value of overflow is visible. With this default, we can see content when it overflows.

To crop content when it overflows, you can set overflow: hidden. This does exactly what it says: it hides overflow. Beware that this can
 make some content invisible. You should only do this if hiding content won't cause problems.

Instead, perhaps you would like to add scrollbars when content overflows? Using overflow: scroll, browsers with visible scrollbars will
always display them—even if there is not enough content to overflow. This offers the advantage of keeping the layout consistent, instead
of scrollbars appearing or disappearing, depending upon the amount of content in the container.


Note: You can specify x and y scrolling using the overflow property, passing two values. If two keywords are specified, the first
applies to overflow-x and the second applies to overflow-y. Otherwise, both overflow-x and overflow-y are set to the same value.
For example, overflow: scroll hidden would set overflow-x to scroll and overflow-y to hidden.

If you only want scrollbars to appear when there is more content than can fit in the box, use overflow: auto. This allows the
browser to determine if it should display scrollbars.


*Overflow establishes a Block Formatting Context
When you use a value of overflow such as scroll or auto, you create a Block Formatting Context (BFC). The content of the box that you
have changed the value of overflow for acquires a self-contained layout. Content outside the container cannot poke into the container,
and nothing can poke out of that container into the surrounding layout. This enables scrolling behavior, as all box content needs to
be contained and not overlap, in order to create a consistent scrolling experience.


*Unwanted overflow in web design
Modern layout methods (described in  CSS layout) manage overflow. They largely work without assumptions or dependencies for how much
content there will be on a web page.

This has not always been the norm. In the past, some sites were built with fixed-height containers to align bottoms of boxes. These
boxes may otherwise have no relationship to each other. This was fragile. In a legacy application, you may encounter a box where
content is overlaying other content on the page. Now you can recognize that this happens with overflow. Ideally, you will refactor
the layout to not rely on fixed-height containers.

When developing a site, always keep overflow in mind. Test designs with large and small amounts of content. Increase the font sizes of
text. Generally ensure that your CSS works in a robust way. Changing the value of overflow to hide content, or to add scrollbars,
is likely to be reserved for a few select use cases. (for example, where you intend to have a scrolling box)
