*Styling backgrounds in CSS
The CSS background property is a shorthand for a number of background longhand properties that we will meet in this lesson. If you
discover a complex background property in a stylesheet, it might seem a little hard to understand as so many values can be passed in
at once.

*Background colors
The background-color property defines the background color on any element in CSS. The property accepts any valid <color>. A
background-color extends underneath the content and padding box of the element.

*Background images
The background-image property enables the display of an image in the background of an element. In the example below, we have two boxes —
one has a background image which is larger than the box, the other has a small image of a star.
-If you specify a background color in addition to a background image then the image displays on top of the color. Try adding a
background-color property to the example above to see that in action.



*Controlling background-repeat
The background-repeat property is used to control the tiling behavior of images. The available values are:

no-repeat — stop the background from repeating altogether.
repeat-x — repeat horizontally.
repeat-y — repeat vertically.
repeat — the default; repeat in both directions.


*Sizing the background image
In the example above, we have a large image that has ended up being cropped as it is larger than the element it is a background of.
In this case we could use the background-size property, which can take length or percentage values, to size the image to fit inside
the background.

You can also use keywords:

1]cover — the browser will make the image just large enough so that it completely covers the box area while still retaining its aspect
ratio. In this case, part of the image is likely to end up outside the box.

2]contain — the browser will make the image the right size to fit inside the box. In this case, you may end up with gaps on either side
or on the top and bottom of the image, if the aspect ratio of the image is different from that of the box.



*Positioning the background image
The background-position property allows you to choose the position in which the background image appears on the box it is applied to.
This uses a coordinate system in which the top-left-hand corner of the box is (0,0), and the box is positioned along the horizontal (x)
and vertical (y) axes.


*Gradient backgrounds
-A gradient — when used for a background — acts just like an image and is also set by using the background-image property.

*Multiple background images
-It is also possible to have multiple background images — you specify multiple background-image values in a single property value, separating each one with a comma.

When you do this you may end up with background images overlapping each other. The backgrounds will layer with the last listed
background image at the bottom of the stack, and each previous image stacking on top of the one that follows it in the code.



*Background attachment
Another option we have available for backgrounds is specifying how they scroll when the content scrolls. This is controlled using the
background-attachment property, which can take the following values:

1]scroll: It causes the element's background to scroll when the page is scrolled. If the element content is scrolled, the background does
not move. In effect, the background is fixed to the same position on the page, so it scrolls as the page scrolls.
2]fixed: It causes an element's background to be fixed to the viewport so that it doesn't scroll when the page or element content is
scrolled. It will always remain in the same position on the screen.
3]local: This value was added later on (it is only supported in Internet Explorer 9+, whereas the others are supported in IE4+) because
the scroll value is rather confusing and doesn't really do what you want in many cases. The local value fixes the background to the
element it is set on, so when you scroll the element, the background scrolls with it.

The background-attachment property only has an effect when there is content to scroll
Ex:   https://mdn.github.io/learning-area/css/styling-boxes/backgrounds/background-attachment.html



*Using the background shorthand property
As I mentioned at the beginning of this lesson, you will often see backgrounds specified using the background property. This shorthand
lets you set all of the different properties at once.

If using multiple backgrounds, you need to specify all of the properties for the first background, then add your next background after
a comma. In the example below we have a gradient with a size and position, then an image background with no-repeat and a position,
then a color.




*Borders
When learning about the Box Model, we discovered how borders affect the size of our box. In this lesson we will look at how to use
borders creatively. Typically when we add borders to an element with CSS we use a shorthand property that sets the color, width, and
style of the border in one line of CSS.

-Rounded corners
Rounding corners on a box is achieved by using the border-radius property and associated longhands which relate to each corner of the
box. Two lengths or percentages may be used as a value, the first value defining the horizontal radius, and the second the vertical
radius. In a lot of cases, you will only pass in one value, which will be used for both.
