How does CSS actually work?
-When a browser displays a document, it must combine the document's content with its style information. It processes the
document in a number of stages, which we've listed below. Bear in mind that this is a very simplified version of what
happens when a browser loads a webpage, and that different browsers will handle the process in different ways. But this
is roughly what happens.

1]The browser loads the HTML (e.g. receives it from the network).
2]It converts the HTML into a DOM (Document Object Model). The DOM represents the document in the computer's memory.
The DOM is explained in a bit more detail in the next section.
3]The browser then fetches most of the resources that are linked to by the HTML document, such as embedded images
and videos ... and linked CSS! JavaScript is handled a bit later on in the process, and we won't talk about it here
to keep things simpler.
4]The browser parses the fetched CSS, and sorts the different rules by their selector types into different "buckets",
e.g. element, class, ID, and so on. Based on the selectors it finds, it works out which rules should be applied to
which nodes in the DOM, and attaches style to them as required (this intermediate step is called a render tree).
5]The render tree is laid out in the structure it should appear in after the rules have been applied to it.
6]The visual display of the page is shown on the screen (this stage is called painting).


*About the DOM
-A DOM has a tree-like structure. Each element, attribute, and piece of text in the markup language becomes a DOM node
in the tree structure. The nodes are defined by their relationship to other DOM nodes. Some elements are parents of
child nodes, and child nodes have siblings.

-Understanding the DOM helps you design, debug and maintain your CSS because the DOM is where your CSS and the document's
content meet up. When you start working with browser DevTools you will be navigating the DOM as you select items in order
to see which rules apply.

*What happens if a browser encounters CSS it doesn't understand?
-The answer is that it does nothing, and just moves on to the next bit of CSS!

-If a browser is parsing your rules, and encounters a property or value that it doesn't understand, it ignores it
and moves on to the next declaration. It will do this if you have made an error and misspelled a property or value,
or if the property or value is just too new and the browser doesn't yet support it.

-Similarly, if a browser encounters a selector that it doesn't understand, it will just ignore the whole rule and
move on to the next one.
