As you start to work on larger stylesheets and big projects you will discover that maintaining a huge CSS file can be challenging. In this article we will take a brief look at some best practices for writing your CSS to make it easily maintainable, and some of the solutions you will find in use by others to help improve maintainability.

*Tips to keep your CSS tidy
Here are some general suggestions for ways to keep your stylesheets organised and tidy.

Does your project have a coding style guide?
If you are working with a team on an existing project, the first thing to check is whether the project has an existing style guide for CSS. The team style guide should always win over your own personal preferences. There often isn't a right or wrong way to do things, but consistency is important.

For example, have a look at the CSS guidelines for MDN code examples.

Keep it consistent
If you get to set the rules for the project or are working alone, then the most important thing to do is to keep things consistent. Consistency can be applied in all sorts of ways, such as using the same naming conventions for classes, choosing one method of describing color, or maintaining consistent formatting (for example will you use tabs or spaces to indent your code? If spaces, how many spaces?)

Having a set of rules you always follow reduces the amount of mental overhead needed when writing CSS, as some of the decisions are already made.

Formatting readable CSS
There are a couple of ways you will see CSS formatted. Some developers put all of the rules onto a single line.
Other developers prefer to break everything onto a new line.
CSS doesn't mind which one you use. We personally find it is more readable to have each property and value pair on a new line.

Comment your CSS
Adding comments to your CSS will help any future developer work with your CSS file, but will also help you when you come back to the project after a break.

A good tip is to add a block of comments between logical sections in your stylesheet too, to help locate different sections quickly when scanning through, or even give you something to search for to jump right into that part of the CSS. If you use a string which won't appear in the code you can jump from section to section by searching for it — below we have used ||.
You don't need to comment every single thing in your CSS, as much of it will be self-explanatory. What you should comment are the things where you made a particular decision for a reason.


Create logical sections in your stylesheet
It is a good idea to have all of the common styling first in the stylesheet. This means all of the styles which will generally apply unless you do something special with that element. You will typically have rules set up for:

-body
-p
-h1, h2, h3, h4, h5
-ul and ol
-The table properties
-Links

After this section we could define a few utility classes, for example a class that removes the default list style for lists we're going to display as flex items or in some other way. If you have a few things you know you will want to apply to lots of different elements, they can come in this section.
Then we can add everything that is used sitewide. That might be things like the basic page layout, the header, navigation styling, and so on.
Finally we will include CSS for specific things, broken down by the context, page or even component in which they are used.
By ordering things in this way, we at least have an idea in which part of the stylesheet we will be looking for something that we want to change.



Avoid overly-specific selectors
If you create very specific selectors you will often find that you need to duplicate chunks of your CSS to apply the same rules to another element. For example, you might have something like the below selector, which applies the rule to a <p> with a class of box inside an <article> with a class of main.

article.main p.box {
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
}

If you then wanted to apply the same rules to something outside of main, or to something other than a <p>, you would have to add another selector to these rules or create a whole new ruleset. Instead, you could use the selector .box to apply your rule to any element that has the class box:
.box {
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
}

There will be times when making something more specific makes sense, however this will generally be an exception rather than usual practice.





*Other tools that can help
CSS itself doesn't have much in the way of in-built organisation, therefore you need to do the work to create consistency and rules around how you write CSS. The web community has also developed various tools and approaches that can help you to manage larger CSS projects. As they may be helpful for you to investigate, and you are likely to come across these things when working with other people, we've included a short guide to some of these.

CSS methodologies
  OOCSS
  BEM
  Other common systems

Build systems for CSS
  Defining variables
  Compiling component stylesheets
  Post-processing for optimization
