-Where should your website live on your computer?
When you are working on a website locally on your computer,
you should keep all the related files in a single folder that mirrors the published website's file structure on the server.
This folder can live anywhere you like, but you should put it somewhere where you can easily find it, maybe on your Desktop,
in your Home folder, or at the root of your hard drive.

1] Choose a place to store your website projects.
 Inside your chosen place, create a new folder called web-projects (or similar).
  This is where all your website projects will live.

2] Inside this first folder, create another folder to store your first website in.
   Call it test-site (or something more imaginative).


-What structure should your website have?
Next, let's look at what structure our test site should have.
The most common things we'll have on any website project we create are an index HTML file
and folders to contain images, style files, and script files.
Let's create these now:

1] index.html: This file will generally contain your homepage content, that is,
  the text and images that people see when they first go to your site.
  Using your text editor, create a new file called index.html and save it just inside your test-site folder.

2] images folder: This folder will contain all the images that you use on your site.
  Create a folder called images, inside your test-site folder.

3] styles folder: This folder will contain the CSS code used to style your content
  (for example, setting text and background colors).
  Create a folder called styles, inside your test-site folder.

4] scripts folder: This folder will contain all the JavaScript code used to add interactive functionality to your site
  (e.g. buttons that load data when clicked). Create a folder called scripts, inside your test-site folder.


-File paths:-
To make files talk to one another, you have to provide a file path between them — basically a route,
so one file knows where another one is. To demonstrate this, we will insert a little bit of HTML into our index.html file,
and make it display the image you chose in the article "What will your website look like?"

*** Some general rules for file paths:

1] To link to a target file in the same directory as the invoking HTML file, just use the filename, e.g. my-image.jpg.
2] To reference a file in a subdirectory, write the directory name in front of the path,
  plus a forward slash, e.g. subdirectory/my-image.jpg.
3] To link to a target file in the directory above the invoking HTML file, write two dots.
  So for example, if index.html was inside a subfolder of test-site and my-image.jpg was inside test-site,
  you could reference my-image.jpg from index.html using ../my-image.jpg.
  You can combine these as much as you like, for example ../subdirectory/another-subdirectory/my-image.jpg.
